*Score specification.* Score specification proceeds as a process of successive segment specification.
Score specification R equals the ordered list of zero or more segment specifications.
The time ordered of segment specifications in R is taken equal to score order.

*Segment specification.* Define segment specification H equal to the 4-tuple (S, T, D, P),
with score template S, tempo specification T, duration specification D, 
and unordered set of zero or more population specifications P. 

*Segment score template.* Define score template S equal to any prebuilt empty voiced score S.

*Segment tempo.* Define tempo specification T equal to any absolute 
or relative tempo specification. Tempo specification T is optional.
The system currently affords relative tempo specification only with reference to another segment exactly.
(All sorts of other relative tempo specification scenarios are possible. We leave these for later.)

*Segment duration.* Define duration specification D equal to any written duration,
any duration in seconds or any meter specification M. Tempo must be resolvable where
D equals a duration in seconds.

*Segment time signatures.* Define meter specification M equal to an ordered list of one or more meters.
The system currently models meter specification as an (optional) segment attribute.
Eventually, the system will also model meter specification as a staff group and staff attribute.
This implies the following: first, segments may be unmetered.
Second, the system models measures as 'backgrounding' notes, rests, chords, tuplets 
rather than containing notes, rests, chords, tuplets.
Third, the contents of metered segments is expected to match the sum of segment meters.
Fourth, the metering of staff segments will eventually be allowed to differ.
Fifth, metering will eventually 'cascade' down the score hierarchy similarly to typographic attributes.
Metering may be specified absolutely, relatively or with reference to a statal server.
All cases of relative metering specification are based on reference to the metering of another segment.
The current implementation of the system affords relative meter specification of segment H
as equal to meters i through j of segment K, allowing for positive, negative and empty values of i, j.
Statal meter specification assumes a hierarchical statal server that is duration-aware.
(Many other variations are left for later implementation.)

*Settings.* Define setting t equal the 6-tuple (σ, ν, κ, n, s, p) with segment name σ,
context name ν, scope κ, attribute name n, source s, and persistence indicator p.
This is equivalent to context selection ξ equal to (σ, ν, κ), defined below, together
with three further values n, s, p.

*Directives.* Define directive d equal to the 4-tuple (τ, n, s, p) with target selection τ,
attribute name n, source s, and persistence indicator p.

*Selections.* Define selection λ equal to the triple (σ, N, κ) with segment name σ,
context names N = {ν0, ..., νn}, and scope κ. Note that N is defined equal to a list
of zero or more elements. This means that selections function as a type of bundle
that can be unpacked. Note too that where n = 0 we say that λ is empty. Intuitively λ
represents a filtered rectangle of a single score segment.

*Context selections.* Define context selection ξ equal to the triple (σ, ν, κ) with
segment name σ, context name ν, and scope κ. Intuitively ξ equals a filtered horizontal
layer of music in a single segment of score. The compositing of zero or more context
selections all in the same segment gives selection λ as defined above.
