There are indefinitely many ways to interpret any segment.
Note that interpretation follows specification and that the purpose
of interpretation is to make every score segment notatable.

This version of the code implements the following interpretation regime:

    score:
        1. time signatures on a segment-by-segment basis
    voices:
        2. divisions
        3. rhythm
    arbitrary contexts:
        4. pitch-classes, pitch, marks
        
This means that the code currently implements a rhythm-first way of building score.
Notes on this rhythm-first way of building score appear below.

(0) Interpretation enforces hierarchy on specification. Rhythmic divisions and
events always are set absolutely or else derived from segments' time signatures.
But the opposite can not obtain: time signatures may not be specified in terms of
rhythmic divisions or events. Likewise, pitch-classes, pitches and leaf attributes
apply to rhythmic events (or the structures that create them). But rhythmic events
may not be specified in terms of pitch-classes, pitches or leaf attributes.

(1) Segments' score-order matters. Score specification comprises zero or more 
segment specifications. Segment specifications' score-order is taken to be
the order in which they will notate in the finished score.

(2) Score interpretation proceeds as a series of one or more passes over every 
score segment. Call these left-to-right (score) passes, for further reference.

(3) Because relative references play a crucial role in score specification,
segment interpretation proceeds only as far as is 'resolvable' for each segment.
The first nonresolvable set expression encountered during segment interpretation 
causes interpretation to pass to the next segment in score.

(4) Segment resolvability refers to which of the four broadly structured segment 
interpretation steps is reachable during the interpretation of any segment in score.
For example, if segment time signatures resolve then interpretation proceeds to 
the resolution of rhythmic divisions for each segment voice. But if segment time 
signatures do not resolve then interpretation passes to the next segment in score.

(5) What causes set expressions to resolve? All set expressions are classified as either absolute
or relative. Absolute set expressions comprise an absolute source. All absolute set expressions resolve
directly with no need to consult other set expressions made anywhere else in score. Relative
set expressions are made with reference to either another set expression or to a statal server.
Whether or not any given relative set expression resolves can only be determined by further
inspection of the set expression's source. Examples follow.

(6) Suppose interpretation has arrived at the determination of pitch-classes for 
segment T, that only pitch-class set expression N has
been found for segment T, and that N specifies the timewise determination of pitch-classes
for all pitch-carriers in T according to statal pitch-class server PCS. We know that the
rhythm of all pitch-carriers in T has been determined because we have arrived at
pitch-classes determination. And we know and are able to access the source from which
the pitch-classes in T are to be applied. So should interpretation apply pitch-classes
to all pitch-carriers in T or not? Put another way, should interpretation read from
and thereby advance the state of statal server PCS or not?

(7) The question asks about the assumptions we make of statal servers. We can only 
answer the question with further reference to location of T in S. So let us suppose
further that S comprises four segments T1, T2, T3, T4 and that our segment T equals
T4 in S. If interpretation of T4 finds that N specifies PCS for the pitch-class
application of all pitch-carriers in T4, should PCS be read? There are a number of
different ways to model this, all of which will probably eventually require implementation.
But in the current version of the system we will chose to implement a 'chronologically strict'
interpretation of the statal servers in S. That is, we must distinguish two statal server
accessor types and pile restrictions on one of the two.

(8) We may distinguish statal server access that is 'absolute' from that that is 'cursor-relative'.
In fact it is increasingly clear that what is really required is a model of arbitrarily many
cursors k0, ..., kn open against statal server W. If we designate the kn by arbitrary (possibly 
numeric) label then we need extend the implementation of W with only a dictionary of the zero or 
more kn, each equal to a (cyclic) integer offset in W. This then percolates up to specification 
and demands that statal server specification always be accompanied by either the designation of
one of the kn in W or else by an indication of an 'absolute' read (from) W. Specification of
absolute read from W comprises (cyclic) integer offset in W together with optional read direction.
Note that the interfaces to absolute and cursor-relative expressions match: optional (cyclic)
integer offset together with optional read direction. The only difference between the two
is whether the offset of last read is stored in the persistent namespace of the interpreted
context(s) or not.

(9) We return to the specification of PCS in T4. Whether PCS is to be read on any particular
visit to T4 depends on the type of read specified against PCS. Absolute reads will always
be made directly: such reads are made against the server and the data served with no
consequences in changges to server state and no new information to persist in any namespace;
absolute reads happen with no further impact to the state of interpretation, as though they
never took place at all.

(10) But whether or not a a cursor-relative read should proceed is trickier to determine.
If T4 is to read from PCS then we need to know two further sets of information about PCS:
first, whether PCS is specified to be read in any of T1, T2, T3; and second, whether
PCS already has been read everywhere that is specified to be read. In other words, the 
specification of cursor-relative read against statal server W demands that we first
know whether W is in the right state to be read.

(11) How do we know if PCS is in the right state for cursor-relative read in T4?
We examine the segments T1, T2, T3 that precede T4 in score order. We inspect 
each of T1, T2, T3 for the presence of cursor-relative read against PCS.
If every cursor-relative read against PCS in T1, T2, T3 has been made (or, equivalently,
if T1, T2, T3 make no cursor-relative reads against PCS) then T4 may cursor-read PCS.

(12) The same holds for all statal server cursor-reads.

(13) What if T4 contains a pitch-class set expression made relative to a selection elsewhere in S?
In this case we allow a single lookup. What will pitch-class set expression N in T4 look like
if N specifies pitch-class information to be taken from elsewhere in S? N will specify
a 'start component' somewhere in S together with the combination of a list of one or
more source context names from which to read, together with an optional read direction.
For example, N might specify to timewise forward-read pitch-classes in the violin voice
and cello voice of T2, starting from pitch-carrier 0 the violin voice of T2.
Or, N might specify to backward-read pitch-classes in the horn voice of T1, starting
from the last pitch-carrier in T1. When such a situation obtains we may say that N
provides 'score-relative' specification of pitch-classes in T4.

(14) Settings are either manifest, server-positioned, cursor-relative or score-relative.
