Time signature interpretation.

                                             * * *

Example 1. Suppose S comprises segments T1, T2, T3, T4. We interpret S by finding the
time signatures of T1, T2, T3, T4. We start at T1 and ask what time signature set expression
exists for T1. Some time signature set expression must exist for T1 or else T1 can not interpret.
Suppose we find that T1 contains a set expression N1 that specifies time signatures cursor-relative
to time signature server TSS1. This is a good thing and we now hope that N1 is resolvable
and that T1 contains no further time signature set expressions. Suppose that we check and find
that, indeed, T1 contains no further time signature set expressions. Now we must determine whether
N1 resolves. Because N1 is cursor-relative to TSS1, we must check to see whether any of
the segments that precede T1 contain a set expression that specifies a cursor-relative read against
TSS1. Since there are no segments that precede T1 in S, this step is trivial and we find
that TSS1 is in the correct state to be read here in T1. We return to N1 and examine the
count argument given in the statal server expression specified as the source of N1. Suppose
that the statal server specified as the source of N1 specifies a count of 10
time signatures. Since TSS1 is in the correct state to be read in N1, we call the statal
server expression against TSS1 and receive a reference to the 10 time signatures TSS1 returns.
We now set these 10 time signatures as the time signatures of T1. This determines the
total (relative) duration of T1. To complete the time signature interpretation of T1 we must now
mark N1 as complete so that segments T2, T3, T4 will be able to determine that the statal
server expression N1 contains has been made. So we mark N1 as complete. Then we must reexamine
N1 and find out whether or not N1 is marked persistent. If N1 is not marked persistent we
have nothing left to do; on the other hand, if N1 is marked persistent then we must add
the source of N1 to the global set expression inventory for use by future segments.
Suppose that N1 is marked persistent. Then what part of the source of N1 do we add
to the global set expression inventory? The source of N1 is a statal server expression that
specified the forward-read of 10 time signatures from TSS1. We should probably add this
entire statal server expression to the global set expression inventory; future segments will
then be able to specify at least three different things with respect to this statal
server expression that was specified as the source of N1: future segments may replay
the statal server expression exactly (and be handed back the next 10 time signatures in TSS1
in the forward direction); or future segments may make use of only the fact that the 
statal server expression specifies TSS1 and then combine TSS1 wiht a expression for a different 
number of time signatures to be taken either forward or backward from the current offset in TSS1;
or future segments may reset the current offset in TSS1 (and accept the next 10 or previous 10
time signatures in TSS1 from this new offset in TSS1); or future segments may reset
the current offset in TSS1 and specify a totally new number time signatures from TSS1, either
forward or backward. In other words, after interpreting the cursor-relative read
for 10 time signatures against TSS1 specified in N1, the set expression inventory will contain
a segment-level entry for time signature-determination set equal to offset 10 of TSS1 in
the forward direction. Future segments may specify the reuse of all, some or none of the 
parameters of this segment-level set expression for time signature-determination. Because N1 is
marked as persistent we add a segment-level entry for time signature-determination to the
set expression inventory set equal to offset 10 of TSS1 in the forward direction.

Interpretation advances and we begin the time signature interpretation of T2.
We ask what time signature set expression exists for T2 and find that exactly one set expression, N2,
specifies the time signatures for T2. The source specified in N2 will be either manifest, 
server-positioned, cursor-relative or score-relative. Suppose N2 specifies a time signature
source for T2 score-relative to T4. We are not yet able to resolve this score-relative
scoure of T2 because the time signatures for T4 do not yet exist. Interpreation passes
because we can not resolve the source of N2.

Interpretation advances and we check to see whether the time signatures of T3
have been determined. We find that the time signatures of T3 have not been determined
and so we ask what time signature set expressions exist for T3. Suppose we find that no time
signature set expressions exist in T3. We check the set expression inventory to see if any segment-level
time signature set expression persists. (The set expression inventory implements a get_set expressions() method.)
We find that the set expression inventory contains a segment-level set expression that sets time signatures
equal to a statal server call of the next 10 time signatures from TSS1 in the forward direction.
Because we have no set expression in T3 to specify otherwise (nor to augment the time signature set expression
taken from the persistent set expressions inventory) we consider replaying the time signature set expression
taken from the persistent set expressions inventory exactly. In order to do this we must check
to see whether the time signature set expression taken from the persistent set expressions inventory is
in the right state to be called. We do this by examining the segments T1, T2 prior to T3
and checking to see whether T1, T2 contain *pending* set expressions that specify cursor-relative
calls against TSS1. We iterate the set expressions of T1, T2 and find no *pending* set expressions
that specify cursor-relative calls against TSS1. This means that our cursor against TSS1
is in the right state to be called in T3. We call our cursor against TSS1 and receive the
next 10 time signatures from TSS1. We set these as the time signatures of T3 and we leave
this statal server expression specifying the next 10 forward time signatures from TSS1 in
the persistent set expressions inventory. (We do this in part because no set expression found in T3 tells
us to remove any time signature set expression from the persistent set expressions inventory.)
The time signature interpretation of T3 is complete.

Interpretation advances and we find that the time signatures of T4 have not yet been determined.
We find that set expression N3 in T4 sets the time signatures of T4 equal to the next 2 time signatures
from whatever time signature server persists in the persistent set expression inventory. We interrogate
the persistent set expression inventory and find the segment-level time signature set expression that
specifies offset 20 of TSS1 read in the forward direction. We check T1, T2, T3 to see if TSS1 is
in the right state to be read in T4 and find that TSS1 is indeed in the right state to be read
in T4. We read the next two time signatures from TSS1 and set these equal to the time signatures
of T4. We then reexamine the source of N3 to see whether the interpretation of N3 should persist.
If we find that the interpretation of N3 should not persist then we are done; on the other hand, 
if we find that the interpretation of N3 should persist then we must modify the segment-level
time signature set expression in the persistent set expression inventory and update that set expression to reflect
offset 22 of TSS1 read 2 time signatures at a time in the forward direction.

T2 remains in the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments. So interpretation advances
from T4 to T2, passing over T1. We begin to interpret the time signatures for T2 anew.
We find that T2 contains set expression N2 that specifies time signatures score-relative to T4.
We check and find that T4 has been time signature-interpreted. So we copy T4's 2 time 
signatures to T2. We reexamine N2 to find whether N2 is marked persistent.
(Note that it is an open question whether or not score-relative set expressions may be marked persistent.
In fact we provisionally declare that score-relative set expressions may not persist.)
Here we will suppose that N2 is not marked persistent. This means that we do not need to
adjust the set expression inventory. We remove T2 from the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments.

The list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S is empty.

The time signature interpretation of S is now complete.

                                             * * *

Example 2. Suppose S equals T1, T2, T3, T4, T5, T6.

Interpretation begins. We add T1, ..., T6 to the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.

Interpretation advances to the first segment, T1, in the list of time signature-uninterpreted
segments in S. We find that T1 contains set expression T1n1 that sets the time signatures of T1
manifestly to [(2, 8), (2, 8), (2, 8)]. We set the time signatures of T1 to [(2, 8), (2, 8), (2, 8)].
T1n1 is set at the segment-level and is set to persist. So we clear the set expression inventory of
any time signature set expressions made at the segment level. (The set expression inventory implements
a remove_set expressions() method. The set expression inventory implements an add_set expression() method.) This
call to remove set expressions from the persistent set expressions inventory does nothing because the
set expressions inventory currently contains no set expressions. We then make a 'resolved copy' of T1n1
and add the resolved copy of T1n1 to the persistent set expressions inventory. We mark T1n1 as complete
and remove T1 from the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.

Interpretation advances to the next segment in the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.
This is T2. We find that T2 contains set expression T2n1 that sets the time signatures of T2 manifestly
to [(3, 8), (3, 8), (3, 8)] and we set the time signatures of T2 accordingly. Because T2n1 is set 
to persist at the segment level we remove any segment-level time signature set expressions from the
set expression inventory and add a resolved copy of T2n1 to the set expression inventory. We mark T2n1 as complete
and remove T2 from the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.

Interpretation advances to the next segment in the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.
This is T3. We find that T3 contains set expression T3n1 that sets the time signatures of T3 manifestly
to [(4, 8), (4, 8), (4, 8)] and we set the time signatures of T3 accordingly. Because T3n1 is set
to persist at the segment level we remove any segment-level time signature set expressions from the set expression
inventory and add a resolved copy of T3n1 to the set expression inventory. We mark T3n1 as complete
and remove T3 from the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.

Interpretation advances to the next segment in the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.
This is T4. We find that T4 contains set expression T4n1 that sets the time signatures of T4 score-relative 
to the first 7 segment-level time signatures starting from offset 0 in T1. We check to see if we
can resolve this set expression and indeed we can. The first 7 segment-level time signatures starting
from T1 time signature 0 are [(2, 8), (2, 8), (2, 8), (3, 8), (3, 8), (3, 8), (4, 8)]. And so we
set these 7 time signatures as the source of time signatures to use for T4. Does T4n1 specify
a way to read this time signature source? We find that T4n1 specifies the first 11 values from
this list of 7 time signatures, read forward from offset 0. So we set the time signatures of T4
to [(2, 8), (2, 8), (2, 8), (3, 8), (3, 8), (3, 8), (4, 8), (2, 8), (2, 8), (2, 8), (3, 8)].
(We have effectively created a temporary statal server and read from it.) We then check T4n1
and find that T4n1 is not set to persist. So we discard this temporary statal server, leave
the set expression inventory unchanged, mark T4n1 as complete, and remove T4 from the list of time
signature-uninterpreted segments in S.

Interpretation advances to the next segment in the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.
This is T5. We find no time signature specification set expression in T5. We consult the set expression
inventory and find the resolved version of T3n1. The resolved version of T3n1 gives
[(4, 8), (4, 8), (4, 8)] and so we set the time signatures of T5 accordingly. Since we found
no time signature set expression in T5, we remove T5 from the list of time signature-
uninterpreted segments in S and leave everything else the same.

Interpretation advances to the next segment in the list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.
This is T6. We find that T6 contains set expression T6n1 that sets the time signatures of T6 score-relative
to the first 5 time signatures of T2 read forward from time signature 0 in T2. This resolves
to [(3, 8), (3, 8), (3, 8), (3, 8), (3, 8)] and we set the time signatures of T6 accordingly.
Because T6n1 is not marked to persist we mark T6n1 as complete and remove T6 from the list of
time signature-uninterpreted segments in S.

The list of time signature-uninterpreted segments in S is empty.

The time signature interpretation of S is complete.
